Jon-Paul Barker
Telephone: 07923111382 	Email: jp.barker@live.co.uk

 

PERSONAL PROFILE

I am a motivated and articulate individual who is dedicated to constant self-betterment. I am an honest, hard-working individual, capable of motivating others, contributing positively as a team player but with the confidence to work alone and take responsibility for outcomes. I hold an average typing speed of 68-70 WPM.

 

COMPETENCY PROFILE

•	Practically-minded, assertive and experienced multi-tasker with lots of common sense and stamina, I am able to plan and organise my work in challenging and pressurised environments to meet deadlines and targets.
•	My communication, interpersonal and listening skills have enabled the building of strong professional relationships with colleagues and managers and my friendly and patient manner has inspired confidence with those amongst whom I work.
•	Quality focussed and highly adaptable, I have a good understanding of business processes and how to implement changes to improve the efficiency of an organisation, thrive on a challenge and using my practical nature to develop and realise projects.
•	Trained and experienced in delivering good customer service both face to face and via the telephone, I can manage call levels, deal with difficult customers and complete sales.
 

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

Sept. 16 – Present	Customer Contact Advisor		Newcastle Building Society
								Newcastle upon Tyne
			
			Providing online customer support and handling data management for postal 				banking accounts. Includes providing service users with financial advice and 				information on an ad hoc basis. Duties also include looking after 						incoming/outgoing electronic files between financial institutions via BACs 					Payment Services.

Aug. 12 – Jul. 16	Transactional Data Administrator	G4S Utility Services
			/ Team Training Co-ordinator	Cobalt Business Park
			/ Workflow Scheduling Agent
	
Swiftly resolving queries submitted by Energy Companies and co-ordinating other members of staff assisting with the same duties, including generating reports and performing data analysis tasks. At the same time the role involves maintaining positive inter-organisational relationships. Duties also include managing the training for new members of staff on the same team and arranging visits from our field agents on behalf of our customers. 
	



Sept. 10 – Apr. 12	Legal Secretary			Newcastle Law Centre
								Newcastle upon Tyne

Responsible for dealing with the majority of both internal and external customers with an aim to ease the passage of communication between client and caseworker. Data entry and general sorting were also high-priority tasks. This role required interaction with other local organisations.


May .10 – Feb .11	Sales Assistant			Poundstretchers
								North Shields, Tyne and Wear

Initially a two week work trial that was subsequently promoted to a permanent role.
Operating a till in order to conduct face-to-face sales and negotiate swift resolutions in the event of returns or complaints.


Jan. 10 – May .10	Sales Assistant 			Salvation Army,			
								North Shields, Tyne and Wear

This is a voluntary role with responsibility for interacting with customers and looking for opportunities to maximise sales and deliver excellent customer care at all times to aid the business.  Tasks included; preparing goods for sale, processing financial transactions, administrative tasks as required and effective communication with line managers and colleagues.

March 2006		Data Entry Assistant 			City of Sunderland College,		
								Sunderland, Tyne and Wear

One week work placement in the ICT Department of the College, the aim of which was to give me an insight into a working environment.  I was responsible for collecting information and accurately inputting details onto internal databases, checking my work and completing general administrative tasks associated with the role.
 

EDUCATION / TRAINING

Nov. 2011		GVOC
Completed courses on Confidence and Customer Service in the voluntary sector

April 2011		Newcastle College
			NVQ Level 3 Business Administration

April 2010		CCP Limited, Newcastle upon Tyne
			City & Guilds Level 1 Introductory Award – Customer Service
 
Sept. 07 – July 09	Tyne Metropolitan College, North Shields
			‘A’ Level Passes:
				English Literature			Grade B
				English Language			Grade D
				Media Studies				Grade C

			OCR Key Skills Level 2 Information Communication Technology

Sept. 02 – July 08	John Spence Community High School, North Shields
			GCSE Level:	
English Language / Literature		Grade A/B
				Mathematics				Grade B
	Science Double Award			Grade C/C
				Modern Foreign Languages – French	Grade C
				Performing Arts				Grade D
				Religious Studies			Grade C

			GNVQ:	
Business Studies			Grade A/A/A/A
 

HOBBIES AND INTERESTS

I am an avid reader with a particular interest in philosophy and economic theory. I am currently in the middle of a self-taught computer science course, with an aim to learn back-end programming. I have followed stand-up comedy since a young age and for the past 4 years have periodically played on the open mic circuit.

 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

References:		Clare Hurst				Adam Mulligan,
			Supervising Solicitor			CSC Team Leader
			North East Law Centre			Newcastle Building Society
			MEA House				Portland House
			Ellison Place				New Bridge Street
			Newcastle upon Tyne			Newcastle upon Tyne
NE1 8XS				NE1 8AL
			Tel. 0191 230 4777			Tel. 0191 201 3655
 

